README.md, before:

[![General Assembly Logo](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1a91b05b8f4d44b5bbfb83abac2b0996d8e26c92/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f6b6538555354712e706e67)](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive)

# Installfest

## What is Installfest?

Here at General Assembly, we use Installfest to install a group of applications
which we consider essential for any software developer to have. We use these
applications regularly in our classes, and it's essential for all of our
students to have them.

## Things to Keep in Mind

- **IMPORTANT: THIS IS AN EXERCISE IN FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS**. This guide is
  _not_ a lesson.

  We will discuss the software that we are installing in greater detail later in
  the course. We are excited to answer questions and talk more about the hows
  and whys during the course, but today we are simply setting things up so we
  are prepared to learn and practice software engineering from the first day!

- The instructions below are made for macOS users. For Linux users, please
  follow the instructions [here](./installfest_linux.md) instead.

- Enter the commands in the Terminal unless otherwise noted.

- We don't recommend typing the commands manually since a single typo can make a
  command malfunction.

  - Use `CMD + C` to copy a command.

  - Use `CMD + V` to paste a command.

  Copy and paste **one command at a time**. Each command should be a single
  line, but if your window is narrow some lines may "wrap" and appear as
  multiple lines.

- If you're asked to enter your password, that means the password for your
  computer.

  When you type it in, Terminal won't give you any visual feedback to indicate
  you're typing things in: you won't get a black dot for each character you
  typed. That's OK – just type your password and hit enter.

- Terminal is not big on visual feedback – it usually doesn't tell you when
  something worked.

  No news is good news! If you enter a command and Terminal doesn't say, it
  probably worked fine.

  Similarly, some of the commands do not give immediate feedback so if it looks
  like something stalled give it a moment. If something didn't work, you'll get
  an error message.

- Your output could be slightly different from the Example Output. As long as
  they are similar you are good to move on to the next step.

## If You Run Into an Issue

1. First, verify that you've typed the given commands **letter for letter**.
2. Then, check the board if any changes were made during the installfest.
3. Finally, ask an instructor for help.

## Instructions 🚀

- [ ] **Update macOS**

For our class, you'll need the latest release of macOS,
[Mojave](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/macos-mojave/id1398502828?mt=12).

If you already have Mojave but need to run an update, please do that tonight
after the installfest.

If you are on an older version of macOS, it is a good idea to update to Mojave
first.

---

- [ ] **Open Terminal**

1. Open Spotlight by clicking the little magnifying glass in the top-right
   corner of your screen, or hitting `CMD + Space`.

2. Type "Terminal" into the Spotlight text input and select the Terminal app. A
   new Terminal window should pop up.

**Note:** If you prefer iTerm, use iTerm for anything that references the
Terminal application. Similarly, use Alfred for anything that references
Spotlight moving forward.

---

- [ ] **Install Xcode**

1. In the Terminal, check if Xcode is installed.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   xcode-select --version

   # Example Output
   xcode-select version 2354.
   ```

2. If you do not see a version...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   xcode-select --install
   ```

_Confirm:_

```bash
xcode-select --version
```

---

- [ ] **Create .bash_profile**

**Note:** If you're using zsh, skip to the "Confirm" commands.

_Run:_

```bash
touch ~/.bash_profile
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc

# Example Output
# Nothing! if you do not get any errors that means the .bash_profile is in good shape.
```

---

- [ ] **Install Homebrew**

1. Check to see if you have Homebrew installed.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   brew --version

   # Example Output
   Homebrew 2.1.5
   Homebrew/homebrew-core (git revision 26177; last commit 2019-06-12)
   Homebrew/homebrew-cask (git revision 3b2b; last commit 2019-06-13)
   ```

2. If Homebrew is installed, update it.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   brew update; brew upgrade; brew cleanup; brew doctor
   ```

   If not, install Homebrew.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
   ```

_Confirm:_

```bash
brew --version

# Example Output
Homebrew 2.1.5
Homebrew/homebrew-core (git revision 26177; last commit 2019-06-12)
Homebrew/homebrew-cask (git revision 3b2b; last commit 2019-06-13)
```

---

- [ ] **Install VS Code**

**Note:** If you already have VS Code installed, you can skip this step.

_Run:_

```bash
brew cask install visual-studio-code
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
code .
```

This will open a new window in VS Code – feel free to keep it open as we will be
using VS Code to edit specific files.

**Troubleshooting:**

1. If you get a `command not found` error, open VS Code manually.

   Anywhere on your computer, press `CMD + Space` to open the Spotlight and type
   "Visual Studio Code" to open the application.

2. In VS Code, press `SHIFT + CMD + P` to open the Command Palette, and enter...

   `Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH`

   VS Code should autocomplete the rest of the command when you enter the first
   few characters.

3. Back in the terminal...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   source ~/.bash_profile
   # zsh
   source ~/.zshrc
   ```

4. Run the "Confirm" command again. Worst case, completely close Terminal
   (`CMD + Q`) and open a new window.

---

- [ ] **Set the \$PATH**

1. Open your `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   code ~/.bash_profile
   # zsh
   code ~/.zshrc

   ```

   Assuming this is the first time you are working with the `.bash_profile`, the
   file that just opened in VS Code could be entirely empty.

2. Add the following line to the very top of the `.bash_profile` and then save
   (`CMD + S`).

   _Edit `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`:_

   ```bash
   export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
   ```

**NOTE:** If you already have code in `.bash_profile`, that's awesome! Just make
sure there is a line that says `export PATH=<blah blah blah>` because we will
need to add to it later.

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```

---

- [ ] **Add Git Auto-Completion to bash**

**Note:** If you're using zsh, move on to the next step.

In your `.bash_profile`, add this line. You want to keep the
`export PATH=<blah blah blah>` line near the top so this next line can go right
under it and save the file (`CMD + S`).

_Edit `.bash_profile`:_

```bash
source /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/git-completion.bash
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
```

---

- [ ] **Install bash-git-prompt**

**Note:** If you're using zsh, move on to the next step.

1. Install bash-git-prompt.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   brew install bash-git-prompt
   ```

2. Add the following near the bottom of the `.bash_profile` and save the file
   (`CMD + S`).

   _Edit `.bash_profile`:_

   ```bash
   if [ -f "$(brew --prefix)/opt/bash-git-prompt/share/gitprompt.sh" ]; then
     __GIT_PROMPT_DIR=$(brew --prefix)/opt/bash-git-prompt/share
     GIT_PROMPT_ONLY_IN_REPO=0
     source "$(brew --prefix)/opt/bash-git-prompt/share/gitprompt.sh"
   fi
   ```

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
```

Terminal should look a little different now. If not, then completely close
Terminal (`CMD + Q`) and reopen a new window.

---

- [ ] **Uninstall Node (if installed)**

1. Check if node is installed.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   node --version
   ```

2. If you get the `command not found` reply, you are good to go! You can move on
   to the step.

   If got any other answer,
   [follow these steps to uninstall Node](./uninstall_node.md)!

---

- [ ] **Install NVM**

**Note:** If you are using zsh via oh-my-zsh, you can instead use the
[zsh-nvm](https://github.com/lukechilds/zsh-nvm#as-an-oh-my-zsh-custom-plugin)
plugin. These instructions will work for zsh, however.

1. Install nvm.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.34.0/install.sh | bash
   ```

2. Completely close Terminal (`CMD + Q`) and reopen a new window.

_Confirm:_

```bash
command -v nvm

# Example Output
nvm
```

---

- [ ] **Install the latest version of Node via NVM**

_Run:_

```bash
nvm install node
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
# Confirm
node --version

# Example Output
v12.0.0
```

---

- [ ] **Install Pyenv**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/3
brew install pyenv

# 2/3
# bash
echo -e '\n# initialize pyenv\nif command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
echo -e '\n# initialize pyenv\nif command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.zshrc

# 3/3
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
# Confirm
pyenv --version

# Example Output
pyenv 1.2.11
```

---

- [ ] **Install Python**

1. For the sake of example, we're using Python 3.7.3 - if there is a later
   stable version it should be OK to use but please ask the instructors if
   you're unsure.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   pyenv install 3.7.3
   ```

   **Troubleshooting:**

   If you get an error that says `can't decompress data; zlib not available`,
   then:

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   CFLAGS="-I$(xcrun --show-sdk-path)/usr/include" pyenv install -v 3.7.3
   # if you are using another version of python, change the version number accordingly
   ```

2. Once Python 3.7.3 is installed, configure python for your system.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   # 1/2
   pyenv global 3.7.3
   # if you are using another version of python, change the version number accordingly

   # 2/2
   source ~/.bash_profile
   # zsh
   source ~/.zshrc
   ```

_Confirm:_

```
python --version

# Example Output
Python 3.7.3
```

_Optional:_

```bash
pip install ipython
```

---

- [ ] **Install Pipenv**

_Run:_

```bash
pip install --user pipenv
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
# Confirm
pipenv --version

# Example Output
pipenv, version 2018.11.26
```

**Troubleshooting:**

If pipenv cannot be found, we need to add the directory it was installed to the
`$PATH`.

1. We need to find the location to add to our `$PATH`.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   python -m site --user-base
   ```

   This will give us a location such as...

   ```
   /Users/generalassembly/.local
   ```

2. We want to add "/bin" to the end of that `$PATH`. So in in this example, we'd
   get...

   ```
   /Users/generalassembly/.local/bin
   ```

3. Update your `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc` by adding this path to the
   `export PATH=<blah blah blah>` line (generally near the top).

   The updated line could look something like...

   _Edit `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`:_

   ```bash
   export PATH=$HOME/bin:/usr/local/bin:/Users/generalassembly/.local/bin:$PATH
   ```

   **Note:** be mindful of the `:`s between different file locations in the
   `$PATH`

_Confirm:_

```bash
# 1/2
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc

# 2/2
pipenv --version

# Example Output
pipenv, version 2018.11.26
```

---

- [ ] **Set up Postgres**

1. Install Postgres.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   # 1/2
   brew cask install postgres

   # 2/2
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/paths.d &&
   echo /Applications/Postgres.app/Contents/Versions/latest/bin | sudo tee /etc/paths.d/postgresapp
   ```

2. Completely close Terminal and reopen a new window.

3. Use Spotlight (`CMD + Space`) and type "Postgres" to open the application.

   If this is the first time running Postgres.app, click the "Initialize"
   button. This should create the database and start the servers.

_Confirm:_

```bash
psql

# type "\q" and then hit "Enter" to exit
```

---

- [ ] **Install MongoDB**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/3
brew install mongodb

# 2/3
sudo mkdir -p /data/db

# 3/3
sudo chown -R $(whoami) /data/db
```

_Confirm:_

1. Open a new Terminal window with `CMD + T`

2. In this new window...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   mongod
   ```

3. Go back to the original Terminal window, then...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   mongo

   # type "exit"
   ```

4. Go back to the second window you ran `mongod`, and enter `CTRL + C` to exit
   the process. You can now close this window.

---

- [ ] **Install Heroku CLI**

_Run:_

```bash
brew tap heroku/brew && brew install heroku
```

---

- [ ] **Install Miscellaneous Apps via Homebrew**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/2
brew install libpq

# 2/3
brew cask install postman spectacle

# if you do not already have Chrome, Slack
brew cask install google-chrome slack
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
brew leaves
# this will list all of the applications installed via Homebrew
```

You can use Spotlight to open the apps installed with `brew cask` by entering
`CMD + Space` anywhere.

---

- [ ] **Install Miscellaneous NPM Packages**

_Run:_

```bash
npm install -g npx nodemon prettier surge trash-cli
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
npm list -g --depth=0
```

---

- [ ] **Install/Update Git**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/3
# see initial version of git installed on the system
git --version

# Example Output
git version 2.20.1 (Apple Git-117)

# 2/3
# install latest version
brew install git

# 3/3
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
git --version

# Example Output
git version 2.21.0
```

---

- [ ] **Register for GitHub**

If you don't have a GitHub account, go to https://github.com and create an
account.

Make sure you update your profile with:

- Your Name
- A recognizable profile picture
- An e-mail address

---

- [ ] **Register for GitHub Enterprise**

Go to https://git.generalassemb.ly/ and create an account.

You should use the same name, username, profile image, and email you have used
before in creating your normal GitHub account.

---

- [ ] **Configure Git**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/5
# Replace "<YOUR FULL NAME>" with the name you would like to use
git config --global user.name <YOUR_FULL_NAME>

# 2/5
# Replace "<THE_EMAIL...></THE_EMAIL...>" with your email
git config --global user.email <THE_EMAIL_YOU_USE_FOR_GITHUB@EMAIL.COM>

# 3/5
# You can copy/paste all of these commands at once, but you might need to hit "Enter" one additional time for the final command

git config --global push.default simple
git config --global color.ui always
git config --global color.branch.current 'green reverse'
git config --global color.branch.local green
git config --global color.branch.remote yellow
git config --global color.status.added green
git config --global color.status.changed yellow
git config --global color.status.untracked red
git config --global core.editor 'code --wait'

# 4/5
curl -sSL https://raw.git.generalassemb.ly/DC-WDI/installfest/master/gitignore_global -o ~/.gitignore_global

# 5/5
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global

# Confirm
git config --list --global

```

---

- [ ] **Add GitHub/Enterprise SSH Keys**

  [Follow these instructions](./git-ssh.md) to add GitHub SSH keys to your local
  machine!

---

- [ ] **Install Useful Chrome Extensions**

  - [ ] [JSON Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/json-viewer/gbmdgpbipfallnflgajpaliibnhdgobh)
  - [ ] [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi)
  - [ ] [Redux DevTools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd)

# Congratulations 🎉

You have installed the basic applications to use as a developer, and you are
ready for SEI. We are looking forward to working with you in the next weeks!

Commit message:

Add example .bash_profile
Edit and rename gitignore-global--template

Add installation instructions for Sublime Text

README.md, after:

[![General Assembly Logo](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1a91b05b8f4d44b5bbfb83abac2b0996d8e26c92/687474703a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f6b6538555354712e706e67)](https://generalassemb.ly/education/web-development-immersive)

# Installfest

## What is Installfest?

Here at General Assembly, we use Installfest to install a group of applications
which we consider essential for any software developer to have. We use these
applications regularly in our classes, and it's essential for all of our
students to have them.

## Things to Keep in Mind

- **IMPORTANT: THIS IS AN EXERCISE IN FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS**. This guide is
  _not_ a lesson.

  We will discuss the software that we are installing in greater detail later in
  the course. We are excited to answer questions and talk more about the hows
  and whys during the course, but today we are simply setting things up so we
  are prepared to learn and practice software engineering from the first day!

- The instructions below are made for macOS users. For Linux users, please
  follow the instructions [here](./installfest_linux.md) instead.

- Enter the commands in the Terminal unless otherwise noted.

- We don't recommend typing the commands manually since a single typo can make a
  command malfunction.

  - Use `CMD + C` to copy a command.

  - Use `CMD + V` to paste a command.

  Copy and paste **one command at a time**. Each command should be a single
  line, but if your window is narrow some lines may "wrap" and appear as
  multiple lines.

- If you're asked to enter your password, that means the password for your
  computer.

  When you type it in, Terminal won't give you any visual feedback to indicate
  you're typing things in: you won't get a black dot for each character you
  typed. That's OK – just type your password and hit enter.

- Terminal is not big on visual feedback – it usually doesn't tell you when
  something worked.

  No news is good news! If you enter a command and Terminal doesn't say, it
  probably worked fine.

  Similarly, some of the commands do not give immediate feedback so if it looks
  like something stalled give it a moment. If something didn't work, you'll get
  an error message.

- Your output could be slightly different from the Example Output. As long as
  they are similar you are good to move on to the next step.

## If You Run Into an Issue

1. First, verify that you've typed the given commands **letter for letter**.
2. Then, check the board if any changes were made during the installfest.
3. Finally, ask an instructor for help.

## Instructions 🚀

- [ ] **Update macOS**

For our class, you'll need the latest release of macOS,
[Mojave](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/macos-mojave/id1398502828?mt=12).

If you already have Mojave but need to run an update, please do that tonight
after the installfest.

If you are on an older version of macOS, it is a good idea to update to Mojave
first.

---

- [ ] **Open Terminal**

1. Open Spotlight by clicking the little magnifying glass in the top-right
   corner of your screen, or hitting `CMD + Space`.

2. Type "Terminal" into the Spotlight text input and select the Terminal app. A
   new Terminal window should pop up.

**Note:** If you prefer iTerm, use iTerm for anything that references the
Terminal application. Similarly, use Alfred for anything that references
Spotlight moving forward.

---

- [ ] **Install Xcode**

1. In the Terminal, check if Xcode is installed.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   xcode-select --version

   # Example Output
   xcode-select version 2354.
   ```

2. If you do not see a version...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   xcode-select --install
   ```

_Confirm:_

```bash
xcode-select --version
```

---

- [ ] **Create .bash_profile**

**Note:** If you're using zsh, skip to the "Confirm" commands.

_Run:_

```bash
touch ~/.bash_profile
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc

# Example Output
# Nothing! if you do not get any errors that means the .bash_profile is in good shape.
```

---

- [ ] **Install Homebrew**

1. Check to see if you have Homebrew installed.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   brew --version

   # Example Output
   Homebrew 2.1.5
   Homebrew/homebrew-core (git revision 26177; last commit 2019-06-12)
   Homebrew/homebrew-cask (git revision 3b2b; last commit 2019-06-13)
   ```

2. If Homebrew is installed, update it.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   brew update; brew upgrade; brew cleanup; brew doctor
   ```

   If not, install Homebrew.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
   ```

_Confirm:_

```bash
brew --version

# Example Output
Homebrew 2.1.5
Homebrew/homebrew-core (git revision 26177; last commit 2019-06-12)
Homebrew/homebrew-cask (git revision 3b2b; last commit 2019-06-13)
```

---

- [ ] **Install Sublime Text and VS Code**

**Note:** If you already have Sublime Text and VS Code installed, you can skip
this step.

VS Code is a _terrific_ code editor, but the advanced features can be a barrier
for entry for new software engineers.

We recommend students start with Sublime Text the first few weeks before moving
up to VS Code, and will be installing both.

_Run:_

```bash
brew cask install sublime-text visual-studio-code
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
code .
```

This will open a new window in VS Code – feel free to keep it open as we will be
using VS Code to edit specific files.

**Troubleshooting:**

1. If you get a `command not found` error, open VS Code manually.

   Anywhere on your computer, press `CMD + Space` to open the Spotlight and type
   "Visual Studio Code" to open the application.

2. In VS Code, press `SHIFT + CMD + P` to open the Command Palette, and enter...

   `Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH`

   VS Code should autocomplete the rest of the command when you enter the first
   few characters.

3. Back in the terminal...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   source ~/.bash_profile
   # zsh
   source ~/.zshrc
   ```

4. Run the "Confirm" command again. Worst case, completely close Terminal
   (`CMD + Q`) and open a new window.

---

- [ ] **Set the \$PATH**

1. Open your `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   code ~/.bash_profile
   # zsh
   code ~/.zshrc

   ```

   Assuming this is the first time you are working with the `.bash_profile`, the
   file that just opened in VS Code could be entirely empty.

2. Add the following line to the very top of the `.bash_profile` and then save
   (`CMD + S`).

   _Edit `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`:_

   ```bash
   export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
   ```

**NOTE:** If you already have code in `.bash_profile`, that's awesome! Just make
sure there is a line that says `export PATH=<blah blah blah>` because we will
need to add to it later.

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```

---

- [ ] **Add Git Auto-Completion to bash**

**Note:** If you're using zsh, move on to the next step.

In your `.bash_profile`, add this line. You want to keep the
`export PATH=<blah blah blah>` line near the top so this next line can go right
under it and save the file (`CMD + S`).

_Edit `.bash_profile`:_

```bash
source /usr/local/etc/bash_completion.d/git-completion.bash
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
```

---

- [ ] **Install bash-git-prompt**

**Note:** If you're using zsh, move on to the next step.

1. Install bash-git-prompt.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   brew install bash-git-prompt
   ```

2. Add the following near the bottom of the `.bash_profile` and save the file
   (`CMD + S`).

   _Edit `.bash_profile`:_

   ```bash
   if [ -f "$(brew --prefix)/opt/bash-git-prompt/share/gitprompt.sh" ]; then
     __GIT_PROMPT_DIR=$(brew --prefix)/opt/bash-git-prompt/share
     GIT_PROMPT_ONLY_IN_REPO=0
     source "$(brew --prefix)/opt/bash-git-prompt/share/gitprompt.sh"
   fi
   ```

_Confirm:_

```bash
source ~/.bash_profile
```

Terminal should look a little different now. If not, then completely close
Terminal (`CMD + Q`) and reopen a new window.

---

- [ ] **Uninstall Node (if installed)**

1. Check if node is installed.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   node --version
   ```

2. If you get the `command not found` reply, you are good to go! You can move on
   to the step.

   If got any other answer,
   [follow these steps to uninstall Node](./uninstall_node.md)!

---

- [ ] **Install NVM**

**Note:** If you are using zsh via oh-my-zsh, you can instead use the
[zsh-nvm](https://github.com/lukechilds/zsh-nvm#as-an-oh-my-zsh-custom-plugin)
plugin. These instructions will work for zsh, however.

1. Install nvm.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.34.0/install.sh | bash
   ```

2. Completely close Terminal (`CMD + Q`) and reopen a new window.

_Confirm:_

```bash
command -v nvm

# Example Output
nvm
```

---

- [ ] **Install the latest version of Node via NVM**

_Run:_

```bash
nvm install node
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
# Confirm
node --version

# Example Output
v12.0.0
```

---

- [ ] **Install Pyenv**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/3
brew install pyenv

# 2/3
# bash
echo -e '\n# initialize pyenv\nif command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
echo -e '\n# initialize pyenv\nif command -v pyenv 1>/dev/null 2>&1; then\n  eval "$(pyenv init -)"\nfi' >> ~/.zshrc

# 3/3
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
# Confirm
pyenv --version

# Example Output
pyenv 1.2.11
```

---

- [ ] **Install Python**

1. For the sake of example, we're using Python 3.7.3 - if there is a later
   stable version it should be OK to use but please ask the instructors if
   you're unsure.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   pyenv install 3.7.3
   ```

   **Troubleshooting:**

   If you get an error that says `can't decompress data; zlib not available`,
   then:

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   CFLAGS="-I$(xcrun --show-sdk-path)/usr/include" pyenv install -v 3.7.3
   # if you are using another version of python, change the version number accordingly
   ```

2. Once Python 3.7.3 is installed, configure python for your system.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   # 1/2
   pyenv global 3.7.3
   # if you are using another version of python, change the version number accordingly

   # 2/2
   source ~/.bash_profile
   # zsh
   source ~/.zshrc
   ```

_Confirm:_

```
python --version

# Example Output
Python 3.7.3
```

_Optional:_

```bash
pip install ipython
```

---

- [ ] **Install Pipenv**

_Run:_

```bash
pip install --user pipenv
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
# Confirm
pipenv --version

# Example Output
pipenv, version 2018.11.26
```

**Troubleshooting:**

If pipenv cannot be found, we need to add the directory it was installed to the
`$PATH`.

1. We need to find the location to add to our `$PATH`.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   python -m site --user-base
   ```

   This will give us a location such as...

   ```
   /Users/generalassembly/.local
   ```

2. We want to add "/bin" to the end of that `$PATH`. So in in this example, we'd
   get...

   ```
   /Users/generalassembly/.local/bin
   ```

3. Update your `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc` by adding this path to the
   `export PATH=<blah blah blah>` line (generally near the top).

   The updated line could look something like...

   _Edit `.bash_profile` or `.zshrc`:_

   ```bash
   export PATH=$HOME/bin:/usr/local/bin:/Users/generalassembly/.local/bin:$PATH
   ```

   **Note:** be mindful of the `:`s between different file locations in the
   `$PATH`

_Confirm:_

```bash
# 1/2
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc

# 2/2
pipenv --version

# Example Output
pipenv, version 2018.11.26
```

---

- [ ] **Set up Postgres**

1. Install Postgres.

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   # 1/2
   brew cask install postgres

   # 2/2
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/paths.d &&
   echo /Applications/Postgres.app/Contents/Versions/latest/bin | sudo tee /etc/paths.d/postgresapp
   ```

2. Completely close Terminal and reopen a new window.

3. Use Spotlight (`CMD + Space`) and type "Postgres" to open the application.

   If this is the first time running Postgres.app, click the "Initialize"
   button. This should create the database and start the servers.

_Confirm:_

```bash
psql

# type "\q" and then hit "Enter" to exit
```

---

- [ ] **Install MongoDB**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/3
brew install mongodb

# 2/3
sudo mkdir -p /data/db

# 3/3
sudo chown -R $(whoami) /data/db
```

_Confirm:_

1. Open a new Terminal window with `CMD + T`

2. In this new window...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   mongod
   ```

3. Go back to the original Terminal window, then...

   _Run:_

   ```bash
   mongo

   # type "exit"
   ```

4. Go back to the second window you ran `mongod`, and enter `CTRL + C` to exit
   the process. You can now close this window.

---

- [ ] **Install Heroku CLI**

_Run:_

```bash
brew tap heroku/brew && brew install heroku
```

---

- [ ] **Install Miscellaneous Apps via Homebrew**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/2
brew install libpq

# 2/3
brew cask install postman spectacle

# if you do not already have Chrome, Slack
brew cask install google-chrome slack
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
brew leaves
# this will list all of the applications installed via Homebrew
```

You can use Spotlight to open the apps installed with `brew cask` by entering
`CMD + Space` anywhere.

---

- [ ] **Install Miscellaneous NPM Packages**

_Run:_

```bash
npm install -g npx nodemon prettier surge trash-cli
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
npm list -g --depth=0
```

---

- [ ] **Install/Update Git**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/3
# see initial version of git installed on the system
git --version

# Example Output
git version 2.20.1 (Apple Git-117)

# 2/3
# install latest version
brew install git

# 3/3
source ~/.bash_profile
# zsh
source ~/.zshrc
```

_Confirm:_

```bash
git --version

# Example Output
git version 2.21.0
```

---

- [ ] **Register for GitHub**

If you don't have a GitHub account, go to https://github.com and create an
account.

Make sure you update your profile with:

- Your Name
- A recognizable profile picture
- An e-mail address

---

- [ ] **Register for GitHub Enterprise**

Go to https://git.generalassemb.ly/ and create an account.

You should use the same name, username, profile image, and email you have used
before in creating your normal GitHub account.

---

- [ ] **Configure Git**

_Run:_

```bash
# 1/5
# Replace "<YOUR FULL NAME>" with the name you would like to use
git config --global user.name <YOUR_FULL_NAME>

# 2/5
# Replace "<THE_EMAIL...></THE_EMAIL...>" with your email
git config --global user.email <THE_EMAIL_YOU_USE_FOR_GITHUB@EMAIL.COM>

# 3/5
# You can copy/paste all of these commands at once, but you might need to hit "Enter" one additional time for the final command

git config --global push.default simple
git config --global color.ui always
git config --global color.branch.current 'green reverse'
git config --global color.branch.local green
git config --global color.branch.remote yellow
git config --global color.status.added green
git config --global color.status.changed yellow
git config --global color.status.untracked red
git config --global core.editor 'code --wait'

# 4/5
curl -sSL https://raw.git.generalassemb.ly/DC-WDI/installfest/master/gitignore_global -o ~/.gitignore_global

# 5/5
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global

# Confirm
git config --list --global

```

---

- [ ] **Add GitHub/Enterprise SSH Keys**

  [Follow these instructions](./git-ssh.md) to add GitHub SSH keys to your local
  machine!

---

- [ ] **Install Useful Chrome Extensions**

  - [ ] [JSON Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/json-viewer/gbmdgpbipfallnflgajpaliibnhdgobh)
  - [ ] [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi)
  - [ ] [Redux DevTools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd)

# Congratulations 🎉

You have installed the basic applications to use as a developer, and you are
ready for SEI. We are looking forward to working with you in the next weeks!
